I am Borja de Anero.
I think you all know me already.
As you know, I am the CEO of Power
MBA and one of the founders of the company.
Today I want to present
you the first of the courses.
Let’s start with analysis and
business model generation.
I want you to know that it is
not orthodox to start by business
models in a traditional MBA.
And, in fact, curiously, almost
no program incorporates a specific
module of business models.
I think it is interesting, as
I said, because it is very interesting.
I am convinced and would love
to do the test, hopefully we could
do it, if I asked you today to
analyze the business model
of a simple business.
But let’s think of the
restaurant that is under your
house or a car dealer.
I don’t know if we’re talking about
Google or Amazon.
I think your analysis would be disorderly.
In the best case, it would be a
misguided analysis.
It would be a puzzle with the pieces without mounting.
And what I want and would love
is that after this course, after
these first two weeks, you’
ll be able to mentally order the
pieces of a business model.
I like to explain it like that.
I think we can equate it to understanding
the mechanism of a business
model.
For example, I would like that if
we talk about any company, quickly,
in your head you order who the customer
segments are, what value proposal
has been developed for each customer
segment, what is the distribution
channel through which they reach
their customers, what kind of relationships
are established with customers
if they are personal through,
as we said, what kind of channels,
what are the revenue flows
that are generated, how it
is charged, depending on what,
it is a product sale, service
sale, it is fixed, it is
variable, it is recurrent,
there is a subscription,
it is licensed...
Well, there are many ways, there are
many different ways to generate income
and we will understand them.
What are the key resources?
It is very important to understand it.
What is needed to make
this business model work?
What is Technology?
Are they people?
Are they assets?
It must be very clear.
Or what are the main activities
in which we have to be good,
in which we have to put a lot
of focus in order for things
to work?
Or do we need strategic
partnerships?
Are we supporting ourselves or
are we supportive of third-party
companies that provide us with
resources, that provide us
with knowledge, that help us?
Or, for example, what are the costs?
What are the main costs of the
business model?
Well, when you are able to
analyze it with this perspective
and fit the pieces, your business
vision, your ability to analyze
improves a lot.
And, in addition, we will teach you how
to incorporate concepts that are
key, such as whether the model
is scalable, whether there are entry barriers,
if there are exchange costs, whether
the English are recurring or not.
We should be able to analyze
how the cash flow is.
If the operations generate a lot
of treasury or, on the contrary, they
are demanding them, I think it will
be very enriching and will
help you a lot.
I also want you to know that these
things are not learned overnight.
I do not intend that in two weeks
you will be a strategic consultant
able to analyze any type of business
model with a lot of depth, but
we will set the foundations, we
will set the foundations with
theory and practice and analyze
cases so that you will assimilate
the concepts.
And as time passes and we see
more cases and see it from more
perspectives, etc., I think
your ability to analyze will
improve a lot.
And, in addition, I guarantee you
that the day you are truly
able to analyze a company
in depth, any business model
in depth, will help you a
lot in your professional career.
You will understand better the company in
which you are working or if you are an
entrepreneur, many of our students
are entrepreneurs, you will understand
your business better, I guarantee you
will understand it better, or if
you are an entrepreneur, or if you are
an investor.
In any case I think it is one
of the competencies and one
of the key skills for an expert
in the business world to
be able to analyze a business
model.
In the course of
the course, we will
use a tool called
Business Model Canvas.
It is a tool that I
personally love.
I have been a strategic consultant
for many years, I have had
to use many strategic
analysis tools.
I think this is the best there is.
It is the best one for several reasons,
and one of them is its simplicity.
It is very intuitive and very simple.
It will allow us to draw
any type of business model
in a very graphic way and will
help you understand it.
But it not only serves to draw
or describe a business
model, but also will help us
to analyze it and help us
identify possible developments
of that business model.
It will help us innovate.
It’s something I always say and it’
s why I repeat it several times throughout
this course and it’s that innovation
doesn’t really require
you to be creative.
You don’t have to be creative or
ingenious.
To innovate helps very
much to have knowledge, to
have the base, to have the
records.
Because if you have those records it’
s much easier that you’re able to identify
where you’re going to evolve.
It is much easier to get
the happy idea.
Well, finally, I hope you
really enjoy this course.
I think we have done an excellent job.
We met with many very interesting
people you’ll meet, such
as the founder of Account
Plus, who was later the CEO
of Europa Exage.
He sold his company in
2003 for $100 million.
It was a case of bestial success.
We will analyze with it and from the
perspective of innovation in the
business model the keys to success.
This is one example, but we will
see many more.
We’ll meet Richie, who is a
very young entrepreneur,
owner and CEO of Vintail, which
is a cave group that is
growing spectacularly.
It is also a very mature sector,
such as the wine industry.
And we will analyze, because we will
analyze the key to that growth.
Nothing, I ask you now.
I hope you enjoy the course, I hope
you participate and I hope that
in two weeks, your ability
to analyze a business model will
be much greater than it is
today.